# Crop_Recommendation

– In today’s time technology is playing a vital role in different sectorsto overcome the difficulties and to have better and maximumresults. Agriculture practices in the country are largely primitive andtechnological change in the sector is slow. Effective technology canbe used to increase the yield and to reduce the maximum possible challenges in this field. It is observed that farmers tend to sow thecrop according to its market value and possible financial profits rather than taking factors like soil conditions, sustainability etc. in to the account. This may lead to undesirable results for farmers and for the nature of soil too. In today’s time, technologies like machine learning can become game changers in such fields if they are used in a proper manner. This paper will represent an effective use of such technologies in order to provide maximum assistance to farmers in the area of crop recommendation.

IoT based Smart Farming improves the entire Agriculture system bymonitoring the field in real-time. It keeps various factors like humidity,temperature, soil etc. under check and gives a crystalclear real-time observation. Machine learning in agriculture is used to improve the productivity and quality of the crops in the agriculture sector. A farmer’s decision about which crop to grow is generally clouded by his intuition and other irrelevant factors like making instant profits, lack of awareness about market demand, overestimating a soil’s potential to supporta particular crop and so on. After examining the current traditional crop recommendation techniques we found that they are very time consuming. so, we came up with predictive ML model which suggests the crop based upon the data collected from farm using sensors.
